ط
TAQAT Academy
عربي
Complete Guide
دليل شامل
📖
Introduction
🔐
Sign Up & Sign In
🎓
Courses
🛠️
Workroom
🚀
Hosting
❓
FAQ
taqat.academy →
TAQAT Academy — Complete Guide
From zero to hosted project — everything you need to know

6 sections
~15 min read
Hosting deep-dive included
📖
Welcome to TAQAT Academy
TAQAT Academy is a free online learning platform built for learners in Palestine and the wider MENA region. You'll find video courses, live trainer sessions, quizzes after every video, achievement badges, and a fully integrated hosting platform that lets you deploy your project to the internet.

What you'll learn in this guide:

How to sign up and sign in using TAQAT's unified SSO
Enrolling in courses, watching videos, and earning certificates
Joining a group and collaborating in the Workroom
Hosting your project — in depth: connecting GitHub, stack auto-detect, env vars, databases, the in-browser terminal, SSH, and custom domains
FAQ and troubleshooting common deploy issues
📌 Everything in this guide is grounded in the real product — every step reflects how the platform actually works.

🔐
Sign Up & Sign In
Authentication on TAQAT Academy is unified — one SSO system across all TAQAT services. Whether you're a student or a trainer, there's a single sign-in gateway.

Creating a new account
Open taqat.academy and click "Sign Up".
Enter your full name, email address, and a strong password.
Choose your account type: Student or Trainer. New learners always start as Student.
As a student, you can optionally add: WhatsApp number, personal website, LinkedIn, GitHub, Twitter/X, and Instagram — all optional, all shown on your public profile.
Complete email verification — you'll get a 6-digit code by email. Enter it on the verification page, or click "Skip for now" to do it later.
Signing in
Click "Sign In" at the top of any page.
Enter your email and password — or use Google (a picker modal appears).
You're taken directly to your dashboard.
تسجيل الدخول / Sign In
البريد الإلكتروني / Email
كلمة المرور / Password
دخول / Sign In
— or —
G
Continue with Google
Your profile
Click your avatar in the corner to open your profile page. You can:

Upload a profile picture and cover image
Write a personal bio and add your skills list
Add portfolio projects — each with a title, description, and link
Your profile is your public face on the platform — invest in it from day one.

🎓
Courses
Courses on TAQAT Academy are built around a complete learning loop: video → quiz → progress → certificate.

Discovering and enrolling
From your dashboard, click "Explore" to browse all available courses.
Search by name or filter using one of 8 category chips to narrow results.
Click any course to see the full curriculum (collapsible accordion) and trainer profile.
Click "Enroll Now" — enrollment is instant.
🐍
Python for Beginners
Ahmed Al-Rashid · 12 videos
60%
Continue Learning →
Watching videos and quizzes
Course room: Go to "My Courses" and click your course. You'll see upcoming sessions, recordings, and the full curriculum with completion checkmarks.
Quiz after every video: When a video ends, a quiz overlay appears automatically. Answer it before the next lesson unlocks.
"Continue Learning" button: The CTA in the course room jumps you directly to the next unwatched video.
Progress indicator: Calculated automatically from completed videos and passed quizzes — shown as a percentage pill.
Live sessions: Upcoming sessions appear in the course room — join from the provided link at session time. Recordings are added after the session ends.
Attendance, achievements & certificates
Attendance is tracked from video completions and live session participation.
Achievement badges are awarded at key milestones — display them on your public profile.
On completing a full course, you can obtain a completion certificate.
💡 Tip: Check "Quiz History" in your dashboard to review your performance over time.

🛠️
Groups & Workroom
Groups are TAQAT Academy's collaborative layer. Join a group via an invitation link or send a join request — then enter the Workroom, your shared project space.

Workroom features
📋
Tasks Board
Organize work in columns: Pending / In Progress / Done. Each task has a description, priority level, and due date.
⚡
Sprints
A time-boxed work plan for the group. Defines the goal and tasks for the period — keeps the team aligned and focused.
📁
Files & Comments
Share project files with your team and add comments to discuss progress and give feedback.
🔗
Repositories
Link a GitHub repository to the Workroom. This connection is the foundation of the Hosting feature.
How to join a group
Get an invitation link from the group admin, or find the group and send a join request.
Once accepted, the group appears in "My Groups" on your dashboard.
Click the group to enter the Workroom.
🛠️ Trainer tip: Trainers can track student progress, review task submissions, and add session recordings directly from the trainer interface.

🚀
Hosting — From Code to the Internet
⭐ This is the heart of the guide. TAQAT Hosting means your project is live at a real URL: https://your-app.apps.taqat.academy

1
Connect your GitHub repository
Hosting works via Git push. Here's how to set it up:

Go to your project settings in the Workroom → open the "Hosting" tab.
Click "Connect repository" and select your repo from GitHub.
A Deploy Key is automatically generated and added to your repository — it's a read-only key that lets the server clone your code securely, without needing your password.
2
Stack auto-detect — pick nothing
You don't specify your project type. The system detects it automatically via nixpacks. Supported stacks:

Node.js / React / Next.js
Python / Django / Flask
Laravel / PHP
Ruby on Rails
.NET / ASP.NET
Static HTML / CSS / JS
3
Environment variables — or import your entire .env
Add variables one by one, or upload an entire .env file directly from the interface. Variables are injected at runtime — your secrets never live in your source code.

⚠️ Never commit secrets (API keys, DB passwords) to your repo. Always use env vars.
4
Add PostgreSQL or MySQL
Add a managed database with one click from your hosting settings. The DATABASE_URL variable is automatically injected into your app's environment — no extra configuration needed.

5
Deploy and watch logs
Every push to your main branch triggers an automatic build:

$ git push origin main
Enumerating objects: 8, done.
remote: Building with nixpacks...
remote: ✓ Detected Node.js 20
remote: ✓ Installing dependencies (npm ci)
remote: ✓ npm run build
remote: ✓ Build complete in 42s
remote: ✓ Deploy complete!
remote: 🌍 https://my-app.apps.taqat.academy
Watch build logs stream in real time from the interface.

6
In-browser terminal — with TAB completion
Open the "Terminal" tab in the Workroom to get a live shell into your running app. TAB completion works exactly like a local terminal.

$ ls
node_modules package.json src dist
$ npm run migrate
> Running migrations...
> ✓ Migrations complete
$ php artisan queue:work
7
Native SSH from your laptop — port 2222
To SSH in from your own machine:

Add your public SSH key in Account Settings → SSH Keys.
Connect on port 2222:
$ ssh -p 2222 my-app@apps.taqat.academy
Welcome to TAQAT Hosting
Connected to: my-app
$
Windows users: step-by-step Windows SSH instructions are available directly in the interface.

8
Custom domains — SSL generated automatically
To connect your own domain (e.g. myapp.com):

Add a CNAME record in your DNS pointing to apps.taqat.academy.
Add the domain from your hosting settings.
An SSL certificate (HTTPS) is generated automatically — no setup needed.
9
Publishing your app URL to the Projects Gallery
Once your app is live, you'll be able to add it to the public Projects Gallery with your own title — this is how you showcase your work to the Academy community and beyond.

🚀 This feature is coming soon as part of an upcoming platform update.
❓
FAQ & Troubleshooting

Build failed — what do I do?
+

App works locally but doesn't respond online
+

Laravel zero-config — how does it work?
+

How do I add environment variables?
+

How do I use a database?
+

How do I connect via SSH from my laptop?
+

My app starts then crashes immediately
+
💬 Can't find your answer? Reach out to your group community or contact the TAQAT team directly through the platform.

TAQAT Academy · taqat.academy